Arrays in Scala
===============
By: Jake Charland, Taylor Kohn and Noelle Beaujon
-------------------------------------------------
Arrays are one of the quintessential tools used by Java programmers to accomplish things as simple as storing data in no particular order, or more complicated tasks like implementing a sorting algorithm on a set of data. Either way, arrays are likely the data structure you would choose to implement these things. 

It turns out that implementing arrays in Scala is in fact a lot harder then it sounds at first for a number of reasons. Since Scala is built on the Java language one would think that it would be as simple as using the already implemented version of arrays but it turns out this is not the case. In the Java language there are a total of nine different types of arrays, a reference type as well as byte, char, short, int, long, float, double, and Boolean and because of this there are nine different arrays written into Java but in the case of Scala we need to be able to incorporate it so that arrays can take the type T. For example you would be able to create an array in the following way Array[T] where T is a type variable because of this we can not use the already implemented method.  To get around this Scala was written so that it “magically” dealt with this problem by having the compiler generate code based on the static types of expressions. But this isn’t really a solution it is just a way of dodging the problem without actually dealing with it head on. 

This at first might seem like an acceptable solution; I mean what does it really matter to the programmer how the arrays are being dealt with as long as the task is being accomplished. The problem is that in some situations with different combinations the memory actually leaks as well as having very poor performance. 

There were many different ideas when it came to fixing this solution. David MacIver suggested having an array type similar to that of Java which would be fast and interoperable, but also one that fit into the Scala collection hierarchy. This second type would have the potential to use all the methods already defined in Scala. MacIver later collaborated with Koltsov and proposed a slightly different idea. Whenever an array was an argument the compiler would simply split the method into both type versions of the array.
